CSSOM_view module page (#38276)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/cssom_view/coordinate_systems/index.md

When using the third dimension to layer objects from front to back, we use the **z-axis**. The z-axis runs from the viewer to the screen's surface. The CSS {{cssxref("z-index")}} property value affects where positioned elements sit on this axis, giving the effect of moving away from or toward the viewer.

> [!NOTE]
> It's possible to change the definitions and orientations of these coordinate systems using CSS properties such as {{cssxref("transform")}}. However, we'll only talk about the standard coordinate system for now.

## Standard CSSOM coordinate systems

There are four standard coordinate systems used by the CSS object model.
To help visualize the main systems, the following diagram shows a monitor with a browser window that contains content scrolled outside of the {{glossary("viewport")}}.
Page content that is scrolled outside of the viewport is shown as semi-transparent above the browser window to indicate where the origin for "page" coordinates would be.
The origin of the "client", "page", and "viewport" coordinates systems are highlighted.

> ![Browser window containing content outside of the viewport. Labels show the origin and top, left, 0, 0 coordinates for a viewport, within the page that has page content scrolled outside of the viewport, within part of the screen, .](css-coords.svg)

Reviewer: Bleh, this alt text is really hard to parse and understand. How about

"A computer screen containing a browser window. Some of the document rendered in the browser is visible in the viewport, and some is scrolled outside of it. The top-left corner of the screen, page, and viewport are labeled with 0,0 coordinates."

?

Author: went with "A large screen with a smaller browser rendering the bottom half of a web. The top half of the web page content is scrolled outside of the browser viewport. The top-left corners of the screen, page, and viewport are all labeled with coordinates of 0,0."

> ![A large screen with a smaller browser rendering the bottom half of a web. The top half of the web page content is scrolled outside of the browser viewport. The top-left corners of the screen, page, and viewport are all labeled with coordinates of 0,0.](css-coords.svg)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![A large screen with a smaller browser window rendering a web page's bottom half; the top half is scrolled outside the browser's viewport. The top-left corners of the screen, page, and viewport are all labeled with coordinates of 0,0.](css-coords.svg)
```

> ![A large screen with a smaller browser rendering the bottom half of a web. The top half of the web page content is scrolled outside of the browser viewport. The top-left corners of the screen, page, and viewport are all labeled with coordinates of 0,0.](css-coords.svg)

Author: ```suggestion
![A large screen with a smaller browser window rendering a web page's bottom half; the top half is scrolled outside the browser's viewport. The top-left corners of the screen, page, and viewport are all labeled with coordinates of 0,0.](css-coords.svg)
```
